---
date: '2021-04-21'
title: 'Welcoming Alice Ryhl as the first paid Tokio contributor'
description: 'April 21, 2021'
---

Thanks to [sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/tokio-rs) like
[Fly.io](https://fly.io), [Discord](https://discord.com),
[Embark](https://www.embark-studios.com/), we are happy to announce that Tokio
will be funding [Alice Ryhl](https://github.com/darksonn) to devote more time to
Tokio. This is the beginning of a program to pay contributors to work on Tokio,
funded through donations via [Github
sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/tokio-rs).

Building a library like Tokio is a monumental task. Since [releasing the
project](https://medium.com/@carllerche/announcing-tokio-df6bb4ddb34) in 2016,
many hours have been spent experimenting, refining, and optimizing the API and
runtime. This work would not have been possible without the hundreds of
volunteers and companies, like [Mozilla](https://www.mozilla.org/),
[Dropbox](https://dropbox.com/), [Buoyant](https://buoyant.io/), and
[AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/), who have funded engineering time to build Tokio.
Yet, we are only at the beginning of the journey that is Rust and asynchronous
I/O. We want to add support for [io-uring](E), improve windows support, and add
functionality to improve debugging, profiling, and testing Tokio applications.

To achieve our goals and ensure Tokioâ€™s longevity, we must build and support a
healthy and diverse base of contributors that spans a wide array of use-cases,
skillsets, and affiliations. Open source sustainability is a hot topic. Today,
AWS and Buoyant employ engineers to work on Tokio and hope to see that number
grow. We value this sort of corporate contribution and hope to see other
companies join. Still, we also know that hiring engineers to focus on open
source full-time is cost-prohibitive for many. We need to increase the number of
contributors who dedicate regular time to Tokio and the number of companies
committed to supporting Tokio to keep up with the maintenance overhead that
comes with a growing ecosystem while also shipping new features.

In that vein, the Tokio project will start paying select contributors, enabling
them to spend more time contributing to Tokio. This program will start small as
it is something new for us, and we want to work out the kinks. [Alice
Ryhl](https://github.com/darksonn) will be working on Tokio part-time. If you
have participated in our issue tracker or discord channel, you are probably
already familiar with Alice. For over a year, she has been the front line for
answering questions, responding to issues, reviewing and merging pull requests.
She also is constantly fixing bugs and adding new functionality requested by our
users. As a participant in this program, she will do more of the same and have
more time to help foster new contributors. We see this as an opportunity to grow
the contributor community.

So how will we fund this program? That is where you come in! We are asking
companies to contribute via [Github
sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/tokio-rs). If you work somewhere that
relies on Tokio, bring up this program with your team and consider
participating. These contributions will help sustain the project that you use.

We have already raised enough to start paying Alice, thanks to our initial
donors. The rate at which we expand the program will depend on available funds,
as well as being able to find suitable candidates. Candidates will be people who
have already successfully contributed to Tokio and are in a position to be able
to contribute even more with the support of funding.

We are very excited about this program. We see it as a mechanism to make
contributing even more accessible, which will lead to a more sustainable Tokio
for all users. If you have any questions or want to get involved, please reach
out to us on the Tokio [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/tokio), and please
consider [sponsoring Tokio](https://github.com/sponsors/tokio-rs).
